Faculty Profile: Gregorio Toscano
Assistant Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: gtoscano@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-4289

Education: Ph.D., Electrical Engineering (Computer Science),
Cinvestav-IPN, 2005

Research Interests and Expertise:

Multi-objective Optimization. Application of cutting-edge algorithms to
solve large-scale optimization problems. Integration of user preferences
in multi-objective optimization for better decision support. Utilization
of machine learning models in optimization scenarios, enhancing
decision-making and “innovization” techniques.

Biography:

Gregorio Toscano is an Assistant Professor at The Catholic University of
America, having joined in the fall of 2024. Prior to this, he was an
Associate Professor at Cinvestav-IPN, Mexico, where he dedicated nearly
two decades to research and academic excellence. Dr. Toscano also served
as a Research Associate at Michigan State University, collaborating on
multi-objective optimization for watershed management projects. He
earned his Master's degree from the University of Veracruz and completed
his Ph.D. at Cinvestav-IPN, where he later contributed as an influential
faculty member.

Dr. Toscano has significantly impacted the field of evolutionary
computing, developing the first multi-objective micro-genetic algorithm
and pioneering multi-objective particle swarm optimization strategies.
His scholarly work has resulted in over 8,000 citations, ranking him as
the fourth-most-cited computer science researcher in Mexico as of 2015.
He has published over 65 papers in peer-reviewed journals and
international conferences, demonstrating a consistent focus on advancing
computational science through innovative problem-solving and
optimization techniques.

Five Selected Papers:

[1] Toscano, G., Razavi, H., Nejadhashemi, P., Deb, K., Linker, L.
“Large-scale Multi-objective [2] Optimization for Watershed Planning and
Assessment.” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics:
Systems, 2024.

[2] Toscano, G., Hernández-Suárez, J., Blank, J., Nejadhashemi, P., Deb,
K. “Utilizing Innovization to Solve Large-Scale Multi-Objective
Chesapeake Bay Watershed Problem.” IEEE Congress on Evolutionary
Computation, 2023.

[3] Toscano, G., et al. “Evolutionary Instance Selection Based on
Preservation of the Data Probability Density Function.” Computación y
Sistemas, 2022.

[4] Toscano, G., et al. “A New Gearbox Model for Processing Large
Volumes of Data Using Virtual Containers.” Future Generation Computer
Systems, 2020.

[5] Carlos A. Coello Coello, Gregorio Toscano Pulido, and Maximino
Salazar Lechuga, “Handling Multiple Objectives With Particle Swarm
Optimization,” IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation 8, no. 3
(June 2004):256–279, issn: 1089-778X,
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEVC.2004.826067

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Managing Editor, IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation
    (2021-present).

-   Senior Member, IEEE, ACM, and Mexican Academy of Computing.

-   Best Paper Awards at CEC 2022, MCPR 2022, and EA 2009.

-   Fourth-most-cited Computer Science Researcher in Mexico, 2015
    (Scientometric mapping study).

-   Mentor for Competitive Programming at CUA.
