Faculty Profile: Gunnar Lucko
Professor

Department: Civil and Environmental Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: lucko@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-4381

Education: Ph.D., Civil and Environmental Engineering, Virginia Tech,
2003

Research Interests and Expertise:

Schedule modeling and analysis, delay prevention by strategic use of
float in network schedules, performance measurement of schedule
timeliness, interaction with aspects like resources and costs, novel
uses of singularity functions in construction management, simulation of
heavy equipment operations, optimization methods, and engineering
education.

Biography:

Gunnar Lucko joined Catholic University of America in 2005 and directs
its construction engineering and management program. He holds Ph.D. and
M.S. (Virginia Tech) and a 5-year German diploma (Hamburg University of
Technology) in structural engineering. He has authored over 50 journal
and over 70 conference papers. His research has been supported with five
grants by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to date as well as
industry foundations. In a humanitarian research project for VentureWell
(formerly National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance) he,
undergraduates, and professionals designed and built a small health
clinic with low-cost, sustainable seismic foundation dampers in rural El
Salvador. Since 2005 he mentors minority high schoolers in ACE (Career
Directions for Students in Architecture, Construction, and Engineering).
He has served in the CUA high school summer camp ‘Engineering New
Frontiers’. He is senior specialty editor of the Journal Construction
Engineering and Management and was chair of the Construction Research
Council (ASCE). His work was honored with the 2013 ASCE Daniel W. Halpin
Award for Scholarship in Construction and several university awards.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Katsuragawa, C. M., Lucko, G., Isaac, S., Su. Y. (2020). “Fuzzy
    Linear and Repetitive Scheduling for Construction Projects.” Journal
    of Construction Engineering and Management 147(3): 04021002(13).

2.  Su, Y., Lucko, G., Thompson, R. C. (2020). “Apportioning Contract
    Float with Voting Methods to Correlated Activities in Network
    Schedules to Protect Construction Projects from Delays.” Automation
    in Construction, 118(October): 103263(16).

3.  Düzkale, A. K., Lucko, G. (2016). “Exposing Uncertainty in Bid
    Preparation of Steel Construction Cost Estimating: I. Conceptual
    Framework and Qualitative C-I-V-I-L Classification.” Journal of
    Construction Engineering and Management, 142(10): 04016049(9).

4.  Lucko, G., Rojas, E. M. (2010). “Research Validation: Challenges and
    Opportunities in the Construction Domain.” Journal of Construction
    Engineering and Management, 136(1): 127-135.

5.  Lucko, G. (2009). “Productivity Scheduling Method: Linear Schedule
    Analysis with Singularity Functions.” Journal of Construction
    Engineering and Management, 35(4): 246-253.

Professional Activities:

-   Mentor / Lead Mentor / Board Member ∙ ACE Mentor Program of Greater
    Washington: 2005-2006 and 2013-Present / 2006-2012 / 2010-2013

-   Senior Specialty Editor / Reviewer ∙ Journal of Construction
    Engineering and Management / Automation in Construction, Journal of
    Computing in Civil Engineering, Construction Management and
    Economics: 2013-Present / 2005-Present, 2006-Present, 2009-Present

-   Member / Secretary, Vice Chair, Chair, Past Chair ∙ ASCE
    Construction Institute, Executive Committee of the Construction
    Research Council: 2005-Present / 2009-2014

-   Site visit organizer, Engineering New Frontiers, School of
    Engineering: 2019, 2018, 2017, 2014
