Faculty Profile: Sang Wook Lee 
Associate Professor 

Department: Biomedical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: leesw@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6218

Education: Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, University of Illinois, 2006

Research Interests and Expertise: 

Sang Wook Lee’s main research focuses on examining abnormal
neuromechanics of the human hand and upper extremity after neurological
injuries such as stroke, essential tremor, and/or cerebral palsy, and
developing novel engineering methods to promote their functional
recovery.

Biography: 

Sang Wook Lee received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in mechanical design
and production engineering from Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea,
in 1997 and 1999, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in mechanical
engineering from University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, IL, USA, in
2006. From 2006 to 2010, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the
Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (now Shirley Ryan AbilityLab). He is
an Associate Professor in the Department of Biomedical Engineering at
the Catholic University of America, Washington, DC, USA, and holds a
joint appointment as a Research Scientist at the Center for Applied
Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Research in the MedStar National
Rehabilitation Hospital, Washington, DC, USA, and as an Adjunct
Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Korea Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology, Daejeon, Korea. He is the recipient
of the Mary E. Switzer fellowship from the National Institute on
Disability and Rehabilitation Research in 2009, the Delsys Prize for
promoting innovation in electromyography in 2013, CAREER award from
National Science Foundation in 2014, and Kaman Research Award from
School of Engineering at the Catholic University of America in 2014 and
2021.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Nguyen, H., Phan, T., Shadmehr, R., Lee, S.W. 2023. Choice of arm
    use in stroke survivors is largely driven by the energetic cost of
    the movement, Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair, 37: 183-193.

2.  Lee, S.W., Cho, H.J., Shin, H.W., Hallett, M. 2021. Sensory tricks
    enhance connectivity between cortical regions in cervical dystonia,
    Clinical Neurophysiology, 132: 3116-3124.

3.  Wang, J., Lum, P.S., Shadmehr, R., Lee, S.W. 2021. Perceived effort
    affects choice of limb and reaction time of movements, Journal of
    Neurophysiology, 125: 63-73.

4.  Panyakaew, P., Cho, H.J., Lee, S.W., Wu, T., Hallett, M. 2020. The
    pathophysiology of dystonic tremors and comparison with essential
    tremor, Journal of Neuroscience, 40: 9317-9326.

5.  Vermillion, B.C., Dromerick, A.W., Lee, S.W. 2019. Restoring task
    mechanics of functional hand tasks for stroke survivors by
    counteracting subject-specific impairments, IEEE Transactions on
    Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 27: 1606-1616.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Subcommittee on Career Development Program (2021-2024), Scientific
    Merit Review Board, Rehabilitation Research and Development Service,
    Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

-   Ad hoc reviewer for grant proposals submitted to National Institute
    on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR), National
    Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and National Science
    Foundation (NSF). Ad hoc reviewer for 30+ journals.

-   Summer internship program for high school students (6 students in
    the last 3 years).

-   Member: IEEE, ASB
