Faculty Profile: Jeffrey W. Herrmann
Professor

Department: Mechanical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: herrmannj@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6175

Education: Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of
Florida, 1993

Research Interests and Expertise:

Metareasoning for robots and autonomous systems, risk-based path
planning, multi-agent systems, operations research, scheduling,
engineering decision making, risk management, simulation.

Biography:

Professor Herrmann’s research, service, and teaching activities have
established him as a leader in the following areas: (1) developing novel
mathematical models to improve public health preparedness, (2)
describing and modeling engineering design decision-making processes,
and (3) using risk-based techniques to improve path planning for
autonomous systems. He has published over 100 journal papers and
refereed conference papers and fifteen book chapters, co-authored an
engineering design textbook, edited two handbooks, authored a textbook
on engineering decision making and risk management, and written a book
on metareasoning. Before joining the Catholic University of America,
Professor Herrmann was at the University of Maryland, College Park,
where he had a joint appointment in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering and the Institute for Systems Research. In 2003, Dr.
Herrmann received the Society of Manufacturing Engineers Jiri Tlusty
Outstanding Young Manufacturing Engineer Award; in 2013, he was named a
Diplomate of the Society for Health Systems. In 2016, his textbook
Engineering Decision Making and Risk Management won the IIE/Joint
Publishers Book of the Year award. He is a member of Society of Catholic
Scientists, IISE, ASME, and the Design Society.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Herrmann, J.W., Michael Morency, Azrah Anparasan, and Erica Gralla,
    “Evaluating Clustering Algorithms for Identifying Design
    Subproblems,” Journal of Mechanical Design, Volume 140, pages
    081401-1-12, August 2018. doi:10.1115/1.4040176

2.  Nayak, Sharan, Suyash Yeotikar, Estefany Carrillo, Eliot
    Rudnick-Cohen, Mohamed Khalid M Jaffar, Ruchir Patel, Shapour Azarm,
    Jeffrey W. Herrmann, Huan Xu, Michael W. Otte, “Experimental
    Comparison of Decentralized Task Allocation Algorithms under
    Imperfect Communication,” IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
    Volume 5, Number 2, pages 572-579, 2020. doi:
    10.1109/LRA.2019.2963646

3.  Samuel T. Langlois, Oghenetekevwe Akoroda, Estefany Carrillo,
    Jeffrey W. *Herrmann, Shapour Azarm, Huan Xu, and Michael Otte,
    “Metareasoning Structures, Problems, and Modes for Multiagent
    Systems: A Survey,” IEEE Access, Volume 8, pages 183080-183089,
    2020.

4.  Carrillo, Estefany, Mohamed Khalid M. Jaffar, Sharan Nayak, Ruchir
    Patel, Suyash Yeotikar, Shapour Azarm, Jeffrey W. Herrmann, Michael
    Otte, and Huan Xu, “Communication-Aware Multi-Agent Metareasoning
    for Decentralized Task Allocation,” IEEE Access, Volume 9, pages
    98712-98730, 2021. DOI: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3096229

5.  Lancaster, Greg, and Jeffrey W. Herrmann, “Simulating Cardiac Arrest
    Events to Evaluate Novel Emergency Response Systems,” IISE
    Transactions on Healthcare Systems Engineering, Volume 11, Number 1,
    pages 38-50, October 2020. DOI: 10.1080/24725579.2020.1836090

Professional Activities

-   Associate Editor, ASME Journal of Autonomous Vehicles and Systems.
