Faculty Profile: Lin-Ching Chang
Associate Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: changl@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-4691

Education: D.Sc, Computer Science (minor in Statistics), George
Washington University, 1998

Research Interests and Expertise:

Machine learning, medical image processing and analysis, data analysis,
computational neuroscience, diffusion MRI, algorithm design, software
development

Biography:

Lin-Ching Chang joined the Catholic University of America (CUA) in 2007
where she currently is an associate professor in the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and the director of Data
Analytics program. Prior to joining CUA, she was working at National
Institutes of Health (NIH) on developing machine learning algorithms and
computational methods for medical image processing and analysis. Prior
to joining NIH, she worked at 3Com Corporation for four years as a
senior software engineer where she gained extensive experience in
software development. She initiated and led several commercial projects
including an interactive voice response system, database migration, and
wireless applications. Dr. Chang has published more than 90
peer-reviewed articles in scientific journals and conferences such as
NeuroImage, Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, and IEEE Transaction on
Medical Imaging. Her research has been supported by the National
Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and the Henry M.
Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, among other
entities.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  I Almubark, L-C Chang, K Shattuck, T Nguyen, R Turner, X Jiang
    (2020), A 5-min Cognitive Task With Deep Learning Accurately Detects
    Early Alzheimer's Disease, Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience, Volume
    12, DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2020.603179.

2.  L Walker, L-C Chang, A Nayak, M O Irfanoglu, K N Botteron, J
    McCracken, R C McKinstry, M J Rivkin, D-J Wang, J Rumsey, C
    Pierpaoli (2016), the Brain Development Cooperative Group, The
    Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) Component of The NIH MRI Study of
    Normal Brain Development (PedsDTI), NeuroImage, doi:
    10.1016/j.neuroimage.2015.05.083.

3.  L-C Chang, E El-Araby, V Dang, L Dao (2014), GPU Acceleration of
    Nonlinear Diffusion Tensor Estimation Using CUDA and MPI,
    Neurocomputing 135, pp.328â€“338, doi:10.1016/j.neucom.2013.12.035.

4.  L-C Chang, L Walker L, C Pierpaoli (2012), Informed RESTORE: A
    Method for Robust Estimation of Diffusion Tensor from Low Redundancy
    Datasets in the Presence of Physiological Noise Artifacts, Magnetic
    Resonance in Medicine 68, pp.1654-1663.

5.  L-C Chang, DK Jones, C Pierpaoli C (2005), RESTORE: Robust
    Estimation of Tensors by Outlier Rejection. Magnetic Resonance in
    Medicine 53, pp.1088-95.

Professional Activities (please also include STEM


-   Program committee member: IEEE BIG Data conference, 2015-2021,
    International Conference on Neural Computation Theory and
    Application (NCTA), and International Joint Conference on
    Computational Intelligence (IJCCI), 2018-2021. IEEE Cloud Summit
    2019.

-   Panel reviewer (NIH): Biomedical Imaging Technology A Study Section
    (BMIT-A), 2018., Bioengineering Research Partnerships-U01
    (SBIB-H55), 2017 and 2018, Bioinformatics Support for the National
    Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), NIH RFP
    ES2015058, 2016.

-   Associate Editor of Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence,
    2021-present.

-   Journal reviewer, NeuroImage, International Journal of Biomedical
    Imaging, IEEE Transaction on Medical Imaging, IEEE Journal of
    Biomedical and Health Informatics, Artificial Intelligence in
    Medicine, Diagnostics, Tomography.
