Faculty Profile: J. Steven Brown
Professor

Department: Mechanical Engineering

School: School of Engineering

Email: brownjs@cua.edu

Education: Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 1991

Research Interests and Expertise:

low global warming potential working fluids, measurements of
thermodynamic properties, equation of state modeling, “design” of
“ideal” working fluids, analysis of potential working fluids,
optimization studies, nanolubricants, condensation and boiling heat
transfer measurements of low global warming potential working fluids,
refrigeration and organic Rankine cycle simulation modeling

Biography:

Steve Brown is currently Senior Vice Provost for Academic Administration
and Dean of Graduate Studies. As Senior Vice Provost for Academic
Administration, he provides administrative leadership and support for
the university’s entire academic division, and as Graduate Dean, he
provides leadership and support for the university’s graduate mission
and is responsible for graduate admissions, financial support,
budgeting, academic policies, academic appeals, and curricular
oversight. He also is responsible for the university-level tenure and
promotion processes for faculty. He received his Bachelor of Mechanical
Engineering from Georgia Tech in 1987 and his Ph.D. in Mechanical
Engineering from M.I.T. in 1991. He joined the University in 1998 and is
now Ordinary (full) Professor of Mechanical Engineering. During his
tenure at the University, he has served as Chairperson of the Mechanical
Engineering Department and as Associate Dean of Engineering. Prior to
joining the University, he worked for General Electric and Ford Motor
Company. He is the recipient of the Outstanding Faculty Teaching
Achievement Award from the School of Engineering in 1999, the Ralph
Teetor Educational Award from the Society of Automotive Engineers in
2001, the DuPont Young Professor Award in 2001, the Kaman Excellence in
Teaching Award from the School of Engineering in 2004, the Best Paper
Award for 2009 from ASHRAE Journal, the Provost's Overall Teaching Award
in 2011, the Best Paper Award for 2013/2014 from the International
Journal of Refrigeration, and the ASHRAE Distinguished Service Award in
2015. He served as an Associate Editor of Science and Technology for the
Built Environment from 2010-2018 and as an ABET Program Evaluator
2006-2018. He is a Fellow of ASHRAE, and a member of ASME, IIR
(International Institute of Refrigeration), and is a registered
professional engineer in the State of Maryland, though his license is
not being maintained since January 2020.

Five Selected Papers:

[1] Brown, J.S., Zilio, C., Cavallini, A. 2010. Thermodynamic properties
of eight fluorinated olefins. International Journal of Refrigeration,
33(2): 235-241.

[2] Brown, J.S., Nicola, G.D., Zilio, C., Fedele, L., Bobbo, S.,
Polonara, F. 2012. Subcooled liquid density measurements and PvT
measurements in the vapor phase for trans-1,3,3,3-tetrafluoroprop-1-ene
(R1234ze (E)). Journal of Chemical & Engineering Data, 57(12):
3710-3720.

[3] Brown, J.S., Domanski, P.A., 2014. Review of alternative
technologies. Applied Thermal Engineering, 64(1-2): 252-262.

[4] McLinden, M.O., Brown, J.S., Brignoli, R., Kazakov, A.F., Domanski,
P.A., 2017. Limited options for low-global-warming-potential
refrigerants. Nature Communications, 8: 14476.

[5] Brown, J.S., Coccia, G. Tomassetti, S., Pierantozzi, M., Di Nicola,
G., 2018. Vapor phase PvTx measurements of binary blends of
trans-1-chloro-3,3,3-trifluoroprop-1-ene + isobutane and
cis-1,3,3,3-tetrafluoroprop-1-ene + isobutane. Journal of Chemical &
Engineering Data, 63: 169–177.
