Faculty Profile: Hieu Bui
Assistant Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: buih@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-4765

Education: Ph.D., Computer Science, Duke University, 2017

Research Interests and Expertise:

DNA nanotechnology and molecular computing, information technology and
digital storage systems, nanoscience and neural networks, biosensing and
diagnostics, nanophotonics and optical computing, systems biology and
synthetic biology, nanofabrication and simulation

Biography:

Hieu Bui joined the Catholic University of America in 2019 where he
currently is an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science. Prior to joining the University, he
was a research fellow at the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory in the
Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering. He received his Ph.D.
in Computer Science from Duke University and his M.Sc. and B.Sc. in
Electrical and Computer Engineering from Boise State University. His
research interests are focused on researching and developing functional
and intelligent computing systems for addressing engineering, health,
and energy applications. His research work has been published in high
impact peer-reviewed journals (i.e. Nature Nanotechnology, Nano Letters,
JACS, ACS Synthetic Biology, ACS Nano, Small, New Journal of Physics),
conferences (i.e. Foundations of Nanoscience, International Conference
on DNA Computing and Molecular Programming, ISDRS, IEEE IRW) and book
chapters. He is a recipient of the following prestigious awards: NAS-NRC
Fellowship, NAS-NRL Publication Award, Outstanding Duke University
Computer Science Ph.D. Award, Duke University Nanoscience Fellowship,
Micron Scholar.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  Bui, H.; Díaz, S. A.; Fontana, J.; Chiriboga, M.; Veneziano, R.;
    Medintz, I. L., Utilizing the Organizational Power of DNA Scaffolds
    for New Nanophotonic Applications. Adv. Opt. Mater. 2019, 7 (18),
    1900562.

2.  Song, T.; Shah, S.; Bui, H.; Garg, S.; Eshra, A.; Fu, D.; Yang, M.;
    Mokhtar, R.; Reif, J., Programming DNA-Based Biomolecular Reaction
    Networks on Cancer Cell Membranes. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141 (42),
    16539-16543.

3.  Bui, H.; Brown III, C. W.; Buckhout‐White, S.; Díaz, S. A.;
    Stewart, M. H.; Susumu, K.; Oh, E.; Ancona, M. G.; Goldman, E. R.;
    Medintz, I. L., Transducing Protease Activity into DNA Output for
    Developing Smart Bionanosensors. Small 2019, 15 (14), 1805384.

4.  Bui, H.; Shah, S.; Mokhtar, R.; Song, T.; Garg, S.; Reif, J.,
    Localized DNA Hybridization Chain Reactions on DNA Origami. ACS Nano
    2018, 12 (2), 1146-1155.

5.  Bui, H.; Onodera, C.; Kidwell, C.; Tan, Y.; Graugnard, E.; Kuang,
    W.; Lee, J.; Knowlton, W. B.; Yurke, B.; Hughes, W. L., Programmable
    periodicity of quantum dot arrays with DNA origami nanotubes. Nano
    Lett. 2010, 10 (9), 3367-72.

Professional Activities

-   Member of International Society for Nanoscale Science, Computation
    and Engineering (2009-present)

-   Co-Organized 2nd Mid-Atlantic DNA Nanotechnology Symposium, National
    Institute of Standard and Technology (2019)

-   Co-Organized 13th Annual Conference – Foundations of Nanoscience –
    Self-assembled Architectures and Devices (2016)

-   Peer reviewer for ISNSCE DNA Conference, FNANO Conference, ACS
    Family
