Faculty Profile: Dominick Rizk
Assistant Professor

Department: Electrical Engineering and Computer Science

School: School of Engineering

Email: rizkd@cua.edu

Phone: 202-319-6465

Education: Ph.D., Computer Engineering, University of Louisiana at
Lafayette, 2023

Research Interests and Expertise:

Hardware security, Social Cybersecurity, Artificial intelligence,
Machine/Deep Learning, Data Science and Analytics, Internet of Medical
Things, High-Performance Computer Architecture, Reversible Logic,
Quantum Computing, VLSI, and Emerging Technologies

Biography:

Dr. Dominick Rizk is currently an Assistant Professor in the department
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Catholic
University of America and the director of Center for Advanced Research
in Computer Engineering (CARCE). Dr. Rizk received the B.E. degree in
computer and communication engineering Summa Cum Laude highest honor
distinction from Notre Dame University. He received his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in Computer Engineering from the University of Louisiana at
Lafayette (R1 Carnegie classification) while maintaining a perfect grade
point average. He co-founded the Laboratory for Advanced Studies
Research. He served as a Post-doctoral Research Fellow at ULL. Dr. Rizk
has collaborated actively with researchers in several other disciplines
of informatics, computer science, and engineering, ranging from theory
to design to implementation, and has published several research papers
in top-tier conferences and journals. He is the recipient of the
prestigious ULL Dissertation Completion Fellowship. Dr. Rizk is also the
recipient of many prestigious awards including the President's Award for
Educational Excellence and Outstanding Academic Achievement and the
Ragin' Leadership Academy Award.

Five Selected Papers:

1.  D. Rizk, R. Rizk, F. Rizk and A. Kumar, "An Economic
    Uniqueness-Improved Reliable Reconfigurable RO PUF for IoT
    Security," 2022 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems
    (ISCAS), Austin, TX, USA, 2022, pp. 1680-1684.

2.  R. Rizk, D. Rizk, F. Rizk, A. Kumar and M. Bayoumi, "A
    Resource-Saving Energy-Efficient Reconfigurable Hardware Accelerator
    for BERT-based Deep Neural Network Language Models using FFT
    Multiplication," 2022 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and
    Systems (ISCAS), Austin, TX, USA, 2022, pp. 1675-1679.

3.  F. Rizk, D. Rizk, R. Rizk and A. Kumar, "A Cost-Efficient
    Reversible-Based Reconfigurable Ring Oscillator Physical Unclonable
    Function," 2022 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems
    (ISCAS), Austin, TX, USA, 2022, pp. 1685-1689.

4.  Rizk, R., Rizk, D., Rizk, F. et al. 280 characters to the White
    House: predicting 2020 U.S. presidential elections from twitter
    data. Comput Math Organ Theory 29, 542â€“569 (2023).

5.  C. E. Moucary, A. Kassem, D. Rizk, R. Rizk, S. Sawan and W. Zakhem,
    (2024). A low-cost full-scale auto eye-tracking system for
    mobility-impaired patients, AEU - International Journal of
    Electronics and Communications, Urban & Fischer, 174, 155023.

Professional Activities

-   NSF Reviewer, 2024

-   Judge for the Louisiana Region VI Science and Engineering Fair.

-   Licensed Professional Engineer

-   Member of the Order of the Engineer in the United States.

-   Reviewer for numerous prestigious conferences and journals

-   Lifetime member of the Phi Kappa Phi honor society

-   Professional member of ACM and IEEE.

-   Goodwill Ambassador

-   Member of the IEEE Young Professionals, IEEE Women in Engineering,
    IEEE Biometrics Council, IEEE Council on Electronic Design
    Automation, IEEE Council on RFID, IEEE Council on Superconductivity,
    IEEE Nanotechnology Council, IEEE Sensors Council, IEEE Systems
    Council , IEEE Computer Society Special Technical Community on
    Autonomous Driving Technologies, IEEE Computer Society Special
    Technical Community on Cyber Security, IEEE SIGHT, IEEE Computer
    Society Special Technical Community on Internet of Everything, IEEE
    Quantum Community, IEEE Standards Association, IEEE Computer and
    Quantum Society.
